---
title: Iran
short_title: Iran
---
**NYC-DSA Anti War Working Group -- Iran Campaign Mission Statement**

The Iran campaign will operate as a subset of the Anti-War Working Group. The campaign’s primary goal will be to prevent any kind of war between the United States and Iran. We will advocate against any and all military conflict and intervention in Iran by the United States including surgical and targeted strikes and the targeting of Iranian resources such as oil complexes. We will also fight to reverse the sanctions imposed on Iran that are hurting the Iranian working class. 



In the past two years, the United States has pulled out of an internationally negotiated and approved deal that, while in place, prevented further conflict and opened the door to normalizing relations with Iran. Instead, the United States has imposed brutal sanctions on Iran which primarily hurt middle and working class Iranians, causing them to lose access to basic necessities such as food and medicine. These actions by the United States have played right into the predictions of the right-wing in Iran who said that the United States could not be trusted. As a result, the United States has silenced the voices of peace movements, moderates, leftists, workers, feminists and environmentalists who supported the deal and were in fact open to peaceful relations with the West. 



The Trump administration claims that it wants to force Iran to the negotiating table, but this is a lie. They do not want to negotiate. Iran already agreed to and complied with an effective deal. We have seen this pattern before. Crippling sanctions and threats of violence are meant to foment regime change, advance American financial interests in the region, and distract us from their horrific domestic policy.



The campaign will use multiple tactics to achieve its goals. We will engage the community through public educational campaigns using social media and teach-ins. We will push elected officials to resist going to war with Iran by meeting with them publicly and privately, attending town halls, circulating petitions and organizing calling campaigns. We will organize protests if those officials do not act publicly as they said privately that they would. We will also hold rallies and demonstrations to educate and organize the public about how American actions affect Iranians. We will also partner with other DSA working groups and partner organizations to integrate opposition to hostilities with Iran into the larger anti-war movement.



This campaign will be targeted at the American public and government. We will oppose war, violence and American imperialism regardless of any objectionable actions the Iranian government may take. Neither will we work with any person that is directly or indirectly affiliated with the Iranian government, official or semi-official state media, or anyone who is thought to be part of any specific political faction inside of Iran. A key tenet of our ideology is that we opposed American meddling in the politics of other countries. More importantly, war would be a disaster for the American and Iranian people regardless. We do not need to justify this opposition or apologize for the Iranian government.



For a long time, Iran has been a scapegoat for imperialist, capitalist players in American politics. Regular Americans and Iranians have suffered as a result. This campaign will build power by educating about the role Iran has played in American politics, publicizing the horrific consequences of a potential conflict with Iran, and by encouraging people in the U.S. to hold their elected representatives accountable for preventing such a conflict. The campaign will further seek to highlight the relevance of this issue to the larger anti-war anti-imperialism movement.
